Main archaeological sites of Athens


Combined ticket 30€, 5 days :
Acropolis 20€
Ancient Agora (and the museum of the Stoa of Attalos) 10€
Roman Agora 8€
Hadrian's Library 6€
Olympieion 8€
Kerameikos 8€
Aristotle's Lykeion 4€
Mon-Sun 8:00 - 20:00, last admission 19:30

Free admission days : Mar 6, Apr 18, May 18, last week-end of Sep, October 28, first Sun of Nov-Mar
Closing days : 1st Jan, 25 March, Good Friday Morning (open at 12:00), Easter Sunday, 1st May, 25 Dec, 26 Dec

Useful links
www.odysseus.culture.gr
www.etciekts.tap.gr
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nzs4rB1Pp2k


Acropolis :
Best time to visit : 8:00 - 10:00 or 18:00 - 20:00
Buy ticket online in advance, except for reduced price because you get voucher that you will have to exchange for a real ticket at the ticket booth anyway
Or buy combined ticket at a lesser site
Time spent to visit : 2h
2 entrances : the main entrance is quite busy (groups), the secondary entrance is on the west side, next to Dionysos Theater.
From the secondary entrance, it's a 10 min walk to the top of the hill. It goes up with it's okay.
It's a hill dedicated to the Goddess Athena, protector of the city. The first temples were destroyed by the Persians, then rebuilt during Athens' Golden Age.
It used to be colored. A British guy, Lord Elgin, stole the best pieces, which are now at the British Museum. The Greeks still wait for their return.
On the hill :
Propylea : designed to impress the visitor
On the right side, tiny temple of Athena Nike. Simple, 4 columns at the front and at the back
Parthenon on the right, Caryatids on the left, at the far end viewpoint (where the Greek flag is)
You cannot enter the buildings but go around. Do not touch the marble.
Parthenon : big, impressive, wasn't a real temple, just here to house the statue of Athena (which was carried away by Christians from Byzance then disappeared)
The small building on the left is actually 3 temples : ERECHTHEION (where Poseidon hit the ground with his trident -> salty spring), 
PANDROSEION (where Athena hit the ground with a rock -> olive tree), AND THE OLD TEMPLE OF ATHENA
Most important building for the Greeks back then
Slopes :
Theater of Dionysos : ruins
Odeon of Herodes Atticus : still used as a theater

Ancient Agora :
Time spent: 1h40
Center of public life back then. People used to walk, chit chat, do business, administrative stuff, pray, vote ...
Panathenaic way : way that goes diagonally through the main square and leads to Acropolis
Temple of Hephaistos : super well preserved, on a small hill
Ruins : Middle Stoa (longest building), a theater (Aggrippa odeion, burnt then Romains built a concert hall at the same spot and reused 4/6 statues of Giants and Titans)
Stoa of Attalos : reconsitution du vrai, préau + 21 shops at the back, part of them now house a museum. Upstairs, models of Acropolis and ancient agora.

Roman Agora :
Time spent: 25 min
Right next to Ancient Agora. When Romains came, they converted the Ancient Agora into a place of cult for the Emperor and moved the business outside.
Tower of the Winds : cadran solaire and hydraulic clock
Mosque
Everything is very visible from the outside if you don't want to pay the combined ticket.

Hadrian's Library :
Time spent: 25 min

Olympieion :
Time spent: 10 min

Lykeion :
Time spent: 10 min

Keramikos :
Time spent: 45 min